<!-----
NEW: Check the "Suppress top comment" option to remove this info from the output.

Conversion time: 0.774 seconds.


Using this Markdown file:

1. Paste this output into your source file.
2. See the notes and action items below regarding this conversion run.
3. Check the rendered output (headings, lists, code blocks, tables) for proper
   formatting and use a linkchecker before you publish this page.

Conversion notes:

* Docs to Markdown version 1.0β31
* Sat Aug 28 2021 13:28:05 GMT-0700 (PDT)
* Source doc: Activity Schema and id fields in Bot Framework
* Tables are currently converted to HTML tables.
----->



## Activity Schema and id fields in Bot Framework


## Introduction

Our primary goal here is to look at the identifiers in the activity classes and the rules governing them. These identifiers are important With the addition of handoff features and media added features, we are now dealing with a wide range of different activities. These activities need to be handled differently based on their place of origin, their destination and content. These can be achieved by labelling and classifying the activities.

The activity object is a flat list of name/value pairs, some of which are primitive objects, and some of which are complex (nested). Schema here refers to the skeleton structure that represents the logical view of the entire activity class. It defines how the data is organized and how the relations among them are associated. It formulates all the constraints that are to be applied on the data. This will help us to create a dictionary with suitable key-value pairs in order to classify these activities.


<table>
  <tr>
   <td>Channel
   </td>
   <td>Software that sends and receives activities, and transforms them to and from chat or application behaviors. 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Bot
   </td>
   <td>Software that sends and receives activities, and generates automated, semi-automated, or entirely manual responses. Bots have endpoints that are registered with channels.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sender
   </td>
   <td>Software transmitting an activity.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Receiver
   </td>
   <td>Software accepting an activity.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Endpoint
   </td>
   <td>A programmatically addressable location where a bot or channel can receive activities.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Address
   </td>
   <td>An identifier or address where a user or bot can be contacted.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Field
   </td>
   <td>A named value within an activity or nested object.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Client
   </td>
   <td>Software that sends and receives activities, typically on behalf of human users. Clients do not have endpoints. Also can be referred to as a user.
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


The entities sender and receiver are variable and interchangeable. For example, a bot can be sender and the client can be receiver and vice versa. When a bot or client sends an activity to a channel, it is typically a request for the activity to be recorded. When a channel sends an activity to a bot or client, it is typically a notification that the activity has already been recorded.


## Schema


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Channel ID</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Every Bot Framework channel is identified by a unique ID. The value of the channelId field is of type string.
<p>
Example: "channelId": "slack"
<p>
Channel IDs serve as namespaces for other IDs. Runtime calls in the Bot Framework protocol must take place within the context of a channel; the channel gives meaning to the conversation and account IDs used when communicating. By convention all channel IDs are lowercase.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Activity ID</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Activities are sent and received within the Bot Framework protocol, and these are sometimes identifiable. We can identify activities uniquely using activity ids
<p>
Example: "id": "5678"
<p>
Activity IDs are optional and are generated by the channels to give the bot a way to reference the ID in subsequent API calls, if they are available:
<ul>

<li>Replying to a particular activity

<li>Querying for the list of participants at the activity level

<p>
Not all activities are assigned identities (for example, a typing activity may never be assigned an id.) The value of the id field is of type string.
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

